s3-cloudfront-oac-cdk-python: Update aws-cdk-lib and migrate OAI to OAC (#3209)
aws-samples/serverless-patterns: s3-cloudfront-oac-cdk-python/README.md

# S3 Hosted Website Served by a CloudFront Distribution restricted by CloudFront Origin Access Control (OAC)

> This repo contains serverless patterns showing how to setup a S3 website hosting bucket that is served by a CloudFront distribution that also obfuscates the CloudFront Distribution domain via CloudFront Origin Access Control (OAC).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Amazon S3 static website served by an Amazon CloudFront distribution restricted with Origin Access Control (OAC)

This repo contains a serverless pattern showing how to set up an Amazon S3 website hosting bucketthat is served by a CloudFront distribution that also obfuscates the CloudFront Distribution domain via CloudFront Origin Access Control (OAC).
```

![Demo Project Solution Architecture Diagram](diagram.PNG)

- Learn more about these patterns at https://serverlessland.com/patterns.
- To learn more about submitting a pattern, read the [publishing guidelines page](https://github.com/aws-samples/serverless-patterns/blob/main/PUBLISHING.md).

Important: this application uses various AWS services and there are costs associated with these services after the Free Tier usage - please see the [AWS Pricing page](https://aws.amazon.com/pricing/) for details. You are responsible for any AWS costs incurred. No warranty is implied in this example.

## Requirements

* [Create an AWS account](https://portal.aws.amazon.com/gp/aws/developer/registration/index.html) if you do not already have one and log in. The IAM user that you use must have sufficient permissions to make necessary AWS service calls and manage AWS resources.
* [AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/install-cliv2.html) installed and configured
* [Git Installed](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git)

> * [AWS Cloud Development Kit](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/latest/guide/getting_started.html) (AWS CDK) Installed and account bootstrapped

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * [Python 3](https://www.python.org/downloads/) (3.9 or later) installed
  * [AWS Cloud Development Kit](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/latest/guide/getting_started.html) (AWS CDK) Installed and account bootstrapped
```

    ```bash
    cdk deploy
    ```

## How it works

This CDK app creates a private S3 bucket, uploads a sample `index.html` to it, and creates a CloudFront distribution in front of the bucket. CloudFront reads the bucket content through Origin Access Control (OAC), so the bucket stays private and is only accessible via CloudFront.

## Testing

1. Note the `DistributionId` and `DistributionDomainName` values from the outputs of the CDK deployment process.
2. Open `https://<DistributionDomainName>` in your browser. You should see the sample `index.html` page saying `Hello from S3 + CloudFront!`.
3. Confirm that the distribution accesses the S3 origin via Origin Access Control (OAC).
    ```bash
    aws cloudfront get-distribution-config --id <DistributionId> --query 'DistributionConfig.Origins.Items[0].OriginAccessControlId'
    ```

## Cleanup

1. Delete the stack
    ```bash
    cdk destroy
    ```
1. Confirm the stack has been deleted
    ```bash
    aws cloudformation list-stacks --query "StackSummaries[?contains(StackName,'S3CloudFrontOACStack')].StackStatus"
    ```

----
Copyright 2026 Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. All Rights Reserved.

> SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT-0

Author: note: I rewrote the README based on [s3-sqs-cdk](https://github.com/aws-samples/serverless-patterns/tree/main/s3-sqs-cdk), with more detailed steps👍

# Amazon S3 static website served by an Amazon CloudFront distribution restricted with Origin Access Control (OAC)

> This repo contains a serverless pattern showing how to set up an Amazon S3 website hosting bucketthat is served by a CloudFront distribution that also obfuscates the CloudFront Distribution domain via CloudFront Origin Access Control (OAC).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This repository contains a serverless pattern showing how to set up an Amazon S3 website hosting bucket that is served by a Amazon CloudFront distribution that restricts direct access to the private Amazon S3 origin using CloudFront Origin Access Control (OAC), so the bucket is only accessible through CloudFront..
```

also:
The README states the CloudFront distribution "obfuscates the CloudFront Distribution domain via CloudFront Origin Access Control (OAC)." OAC does not obfuscate the CloudFront domain — it restricts access to the S3 origin so the bucket stays private and is reachable only through CloudFront. The description misstates the feature's purpose.

Author: Thank you for your support👍
